Greedy best-first search (GBFS):
    search algorithm that expands the node that is closest tto the goal, as estimated by a heuristic function h(n)
    Heuristic - an estimator
    h(n) - will take a status input and returns estimate of how close we are to the goal
    Heuristic func will explore a node if it has the smallest Manhatten distance to the goal (i.e. how many blocks away?)

    remember the Heuristic is NOT a gurantee of the distance but an estimator e.g. it ignores walls and blocks to the goal.
    we are able to take 'informed' decisions when at nodes with different Manhatten distances. if Manhattan is the same, make an arb decision.
    GBFS > BFS in our case of the lecture BUT...
        remember we need to take a good h(n) decision which may be challenging.
    Is GBFS optimal?
           Not always.

A* search:
    We need to modify this to achieve optimality-
        use A* search
        instead of just considering h(n), also consider how long it takes to get to that state
        A* seach: search algorithm to expand node with lowest value of g(n)+h(n) where g(n)=cost to reach node i.e. time h(n)=estimated cost to goal
        In practice, this looks like GBFS until where the h(n) starts going back up again, and then this will backtrack when comparing lowest(h(n)+g(n))

        so A* is optimal UNDER certain conditions:
            h(n) is admissible (never overestimates the true cost)
            h(n) is consistent (for every node n and successor n' with step cost c, h(n)=<h(n') + c)

        A* does use a lot of memory compared to other search algorithms, so is not the best of them ALL.

Adverserial search:
    Another agent has other objectives e.g. game tic tac toe

 Minimax algorithm:
    works well for deterministic games
    i.e. we are trying to win, opponent trying to get us to lose
    translate to terms computer can understand -> numbers! assign utilities and order the options, win = 1 - lose = -1 - draw = 0
    Let MAX player(X) aim to maximize score, i.e. aim for 1 or if not possible then 0>-1
    Let MIN player(O) aim to minimize score, O player wants score to be as small as possible

What does this game need to encode this in an AI:
    s(0): initial state, how game begins
    PLAYER(S): function to return which player to move in state s - whose turn?
    ACTION(s): return legal moves in state s
    RESULTS(s,a): transition model to return state after action a taken in state s - what is the conseq?
    TERMINAL(s): checks if state s is a terminal state ->is the game over? e.g. tic-tac-toe where 3x in a row or squares filled
    UTILITY(s): final numeral value for terminal state s

Why is mini-max considered a recursive algorithm?
    Putting yourself in the other player's shoes, compare utilities and attempt to either 'minimise' or 'maximise' your score

Formalising mini-max:
    Given state s:
        MAX picks action a in actions(s) that produces the highest value of MIN-VALUE(RESULTS(S,A))
        = max player will pick action a that will pick that the highest option in what the min player will do

        MIN player does the same but backwards.

    function MAX-VALUE(state):
        if TERMINAL(state):
            return UTILITY(state)

        v = -(inf) -> we want value to be as low as possible so we always do better than v
        for action in ACTIONS(state):
            # get result of taking action in the state and get the min value of this (what's the best the min player can do?)
            # now compare to current best value and pick the max of these 2
            # going through all of our possible actions and saying how do we max our score given what other player is doing?
            v = MAX(v, MIN-VALUE(RESULT(state,action)))
        return v

    # do the same but opposite for min player
    function MIN-VALUE(state):
        if TERMINAL(state):
            return UTILITY(state)

        v = (inf)
        for action in ACTIONS(state):
            v = MIN(v, MAX-VALUE(RESULT(state, action)))
        return v

What optimisations can be put in place?
    To run faster/store less
    Consider values on the other nodes. If we are trying to maximize options and we know the other values will be less, no point exploring the other states.
    This is called 'Alpha-Beta' Pruning:
        Where if we have a big long search tree, we can search it more efficiently if we can remove some of the nodes and not look through everything!

    But this still too many options for much more complex games like chess.
    Better approach - Depth-Limited Minimax:
        After a certain number of moves i.e. 5 moves ahead, stop and do not consider further.
        If we are still at a placae where the game is NOT over and we have not assigned scores...
        Add feature 'evaluation function':
            function to estimate expected utility of the game from a given state
            E.g. 0.8 implies they are likely to win but not guranteed.
            The better the ai at estimating the evaluation function, the better it will play.
